(Challenges)=
# Overview of challenges

Machine learning for fraud detection is a notoriously difficult problem. We summarise below the challenges commonly highlighted in the reviews on the topic.

**Lack of public datasets**: For confidentiality reasons, real-world data on fraudulent transactions are not publicly shared. There exists only two publicly shared datasets, which are made available on Kaggle {cite}`kaggle2016creditcard` and {cite}`kaggle2020data`. The datasets are also severely limited due to the obfuscation of the features. The scarcity of datasets for fraud detection is also true with simulated data: No simulator or reference simulated datasets are yet available. As a result, most research works cannot be reproduced, making impossible the comparison of different techniques by independent researchers.

**Class imbalance**: Transaction data contain much more legitimate than fraudulent transactions: The percentage of fraudulent transactions in a real-world dataset is typically around 1% or less. Learning from imbalanced data is a difficult task since most learning algorithms do not handle well large differences between classes. Dealing with class imbalance requires the use of additional learning strategies like sampling or loss weighting, a topic known as *imbalanced learning*. 

**Performance measures**: Standard measures for classification systems, such as the mean misclassification error or the AUC ROC, are not well suited for detection problems due to the class imbalance issue, and the complex cost structure of fraud detection. A fraud detection system should be able to maximize the detection of fraudulent transactions while minimizing the number of incorrectly predicted frauds (false positives). It is often necessary to consider multiple measures to assess the overall performance of a fraud detection system. Despite its central role in the design of a fraud detection system, there is currently no consensus on which set of performance measures should be used.

**Near real-time requirements**: Fraud detection systems must be able to quickly detect fraudulent transactions. Given the potentially high volume of transaction data (millions of transactions per day), classification times as low as tens of milliseconds may be required. This challenge closely relates to the *parallelization* and *scalability* of fraud detection systems.

**Sequential modeling**: Each terminal and/or customer generates a stream of sequential data with unique characteristics. An important challenge of fraud detection consists in modeling these streams to better characterize their expected behaviors and detect when abnormal behaviors occur. Modeling may be done by aggregating features over time (for example, keeping track of the mean frequency or transaction amounts of a customer), or by relying on sequential prediction models (such as stochastic processes, or recurrent neural networks for example). 